chore: initial AGENTS.md file (#5068)
zarf-dev/zarf: AGENTS.md

# Repository Guidelines

## Project Structure & Module Organization

> Zarf is a Go CLI (`main.go`, `go.mod`). Under `src/`, `cmd` contains CLI wiring, `api` APIs, `types` domain types, `pkg` libraries, and `internal` implementation. Unit tests stay alongside code; E2E and integration suites live in `src/test/`. Manifests and examples are in `packages/` and `examples/`; Astro docs are in `site/`. Do not edit `vendor/` by hand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zarf is a Go CLI (`main.go`, `go.mod`). Application code under `src/`. Unit tests stay alongside code; E2E and integration suites live in `src/test/`. Production support packages in `packages/`, Examples in `examples/`; Astro docs are in `site/`. Do not edit `vendor/` by hand.
```

IMO our descriptions are not anymore descriptive than the names so may as well avoid the chance of them becoming out of date. I also clarified packages vs examples a bit more

Author: updated

## Build, Test, and Development Commands

- `make build` tidies, vendors, and builds the CLI.

> - `CGO_ENABLED=1 make test-unit` runs tests with race detection and atomic coverage; `CGO_ENABLED=1 make test-unit-quick` skips both.

Reviewer: We can delete CGO_ENABLED=1 from the `make test-unit-quick` part, I'd also add the CGO_ENABLED=1 to `make test-unit` in the makefile rather than here

Author: updated

- `make lint-go` runs the configured `golangci-lint` checks.

> - `make test-e2e-without-cluster` runs E2E journeys that need no cluster. Before `make test-e2e`, verify the selected cluster with `kubectl cluster-info`; it runs both suites and requires a reachable cluster. For an isolated local target, use `kind create cluster --name zarf-e2e-$(id -un)` (then `kind delete cluster --name zarf-e2e-$(id -un)`).

Reviewer: I don't think we want agents to run the full suite, maybe we should instruct running tests using `go test ./src/test/e2e/ -v -run TestName -count=1 -failfast`. 

Also for tests that require a cluster, it's worth noting that they may require a zarf initalized cluster, and this can be achieved with `zarf init --confirm`

Author: This is fair - for some of the longer-run prompts/skills that i've run I specifically call e2e testing into focus (to include isolating from other agents when possible). I can continue to do this in my own workflows instead of dictating as a standard here.

Author: Updated with a mention for full e2e when reasonable.

- `make docs-and-schema` regenerates CLI reference docs and `zarf.schema.json`. Run it after changing commands or schema types.
- In `site/`, use `npm ci`, then `npm run dev`, `npm run check`, or `npm run build`.

## Coding Style & Naming Conventions

> Write idiomatic Go; `golangci-lint fmt` applies `gofmt` and `goimports`. Use tabs. Keep package and file names lowercase and descriptive; use `PascalCase` for exported identifiers and `camelCase` otherwise. New Go files need the SPDX header. Handle errors explicitly and justify every `//nolint:<linter>` comment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Write idiomatic Go; `golangci-lint fmt` applies `gofmt` and `goimports`. Keep package and file names lowercase and descriptive; use `PascalCase` for exported identifiers and `camelCase` otherwise. New Go files need the SPDX header. Handle errors explicitly and justify every `//nolint:<linter>` comment.
```
I believe this is implied from idiomatic Go.

Author: Updated

Install hooks with `pre-commit install`; they enforce formatting, linting, credentials checks, and generated schema/docs consistency.

## Testing Guidelines

Add package-local tests for behavior changes, with `TestThing` / `TestThing_condition` names and table cases where useful. Use `testify` assertions consistently. Add or update a numbered `src/test/e2e/` journey for user-visible CLI behavior; avoid cluster requirements unless needed.

## Version Compatibility

Preserve package compatibility in both directions: packages created by older CLIs must deploy with newer CLIs, and packages created by newer CLIs should deploy with older CLIs. Exceptions require a `VersionRequirement` minimum version or a documented breaking change; state its impact and migration guidance in the PR.

## Commit & Pull Request Guidelines

> Use signed, signed-off Conventional Commit messages, for example `fix(helm): preserve repository credentials` (`git commit -s -S`). Branch from `main`, open a draft PR early, link its issue (for example, `Fixes #123`), and explain impact and testing. Apply `needs-adr`, `needs-docs`, and `needs-tests` when applicable; include regenerated artifacts and UI/documentation screenshots. PRs must be releasable and pass automated checks.

Reviewer: I could be convinced otherwise, but I'd lean towards deleting this to encourage contributors to do the pull request themselves so that there is a human in the loop.

If you agree, we could also remove "state its impact and migration guidance in the PR" from the section above

Reviewer 2: I agree with that, let's push towards human commit and PR. This in some degree ensures accountability and will mean the person reviewed the changes, either at commit or PR stage.

Reviewer 2: There's still https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/605, which we'll need to abide by, but that's hasn't been updated in a while.

Author: Updated - my headspace was parity and the expectation of this guidance influencing agents to provide context back to humans but I realize that this could very well be misconstrued as actions for the agent to take - so guidance reflects human context and authorship explicitly now.
